28. Generator Characteristics ... 967 —9I94

Characteristics of D.C. Generators—Separately-excited Gen-
erator—No-load Curve for Self-excited Generator—How to
find Critical Resistance R? How to draw O.C.C. at Different
Speeds ?—Critical Speed—Voltage Build up of a Shunt Gen-
erator—Condition for Build-up of a Shunt Generator—Other
factors Affecting Voltage Building of a D.C. Generator—
External Characteristic—Voltage Regulation—tinternal or To-
tal Characteristic—Series Generator—Compound-wound Gen-
crator—How to calculate Required Series Turns?—Uses of
D.C. Generators Questions and Answers on D.C. Generators.

29. D.C. Motor

Motor Principle—Comparison of Generator and Motor Ac-
tion—Significance of the Back emf—Voltage Equation of a
Motor—Conditions for Maximum Power—Torque—Arma-
ture Torque of a Motor—Shaft Torque—Speed of a D.C.
Motor—Speed RegulationTorque and Speed of a D.C. Mo-
tor—Motor Characteristics—Characteristics of Series Mo-
tors—Characteristics of Shunt Motors—Compound Motors—
Performance Curves—Comparison of Shunt and Series Mo-
tors—Losses and Efficiency—Power Stages.

 

30. Speed Control of D.C. Motors .«.1031—1090

Factors Controlling Motor Speed—Speed Control of Shunt
Motors—Speed Control of Series Motors—Merits and Demer-
its of Rheostatic Control Method—Series-Parallel Control—
Electric Braking —Electric Braking of Shunt Motor—Electric
Braking of Series Motors—Electronic Speed control Method
for D.C. Motors—Uncontrolled Rectifiers—Controlled Recti-
fiers—Thyristor Choppers—Thyristor Inverters—Thyristor
Speed Control of Separately-excited D.C. Motor—Thyristor
Speed Control of D.C. Seres Motor—Full-wave Speed Control
of a Shunt Motor—Thyristor Control of a Shunt Motor—
Thyristor Speed Control of a Series D.C. Motor—Necessity of
a Starter-—Shunt Motor Starter—Three-point Starter-—Four-
point Starter—Starting and Speed Control of Series Motors—
Grading of Starting Resistance—Shunt Motors—Series Motor
Starters—Thyristor Controller Starters.

 

31. Testing of D.C. Machines ..1091—I114

Brake Test—Swinburnes Test-—Advantages of Swinburnes
Test—Main Disadvantages—Regenerative or Hopkinson’s
Test—Alternative Connections for Hopkinson’s Test—Merits
of Hopkinson’s Test—Retardation or Running Down Test—

(x)

 
 
